scripts/readme.md, before:

# Data Preparation

# Prepare Data Locally
Follow the instructions in this section to prepare your data locally. This is easiest for small data sets. For much larger sets, see the [instructions to use AML below](#use-aml-to-prepare-data).
## Setup
- Install the necessary packages listed in requirements.txt, e.g. `pip install --user -r requirements.txt`

## Configure
- Create a config file like `config.json`. The format should be a list of JSON objects, with each object specifying a configuration of local data path and target search service and index.

```
[
    {
        "data_path": "<local path or blob URL>",
        "location": "<azure region, e.g. 'westus2'>", 
        "subscription_id": "<subscription id>",
        "resource_group": "<resource group name>",
        "search_service_name": "<search service name to use or create>",
        "index_name": "<index name to use or create>",
        "chunk_size": 1024, // set to null to disable chunking before ingestion
        "token_overlap": 128 // number of tokens to overlap between chunks
        "semantic_config_name": "default",
        "language": "en" // setting to set language of your documents. Change if your documents are not in English. Look in data_preparation.py for SUPPORTED_LANGUAGE_CODES,
        "vector_config_name": "default" // used if adding vectors to index
    }
]
```

Note: `data_path` can be a path to files located locally on your machine, or an Azure Blob URL, e.g. of the format `"https://<storage account name>.blob.core.windows.net/<container name>/<path>/"`. If a blob URL is used, the data will first be downloaded from Blob Storage to a temporary directory on your machine before data preparation proceeds.

## Create Indexes and Ingest Data
Disclaimer: Make sure there are no duplicate pages in your data. That could impact the quality of the responses you get in a negative way.

- Run the data preparation script, passing in your config file. You can set njobs for parallel parsing of your files.

     `python data_preparation.py --config config.json --njobs=4`

## Optional: Use URL prefix
Each document can be associated with a URL that is stored with each document chunk in the Azure Cognitive Search index in the `url` field. If your documents were downloaded from the web, you can specify a URL prefix to use to construct the document URLs when ingesting your data. Your config file should have an additional `url_prefix` parameter like so:

```
[
    {
        "data_path": "<local path or blob URL>",
        "url_prefix": "https://<source website URL>.com/"
        "location": "<azure region, e.g. 'westus2'>", 
        "subscription_id": "<subscription id>",
        "resource_group": "<resource group name>",
        "search_service_name": "<search service name to use or create>",
        "index_name": "<index name to use or create>",
        "chunk_size": 1024, // set to null to disable chunking before ingestion
        "token_overlap": 128 // number of tokens to overlap between chunks
        "semantic_config_name": "default",
        "language": "en" // setting to set language of your documents. Change if your documents are not in English. Look in data_preparation.py for SUPPORTED_LANGUAGE_CODES,
        "vector_config_name": "default" // used if adding vectors to index
    }
]
```

For each document, the URL stored with chunks from that document will be `url_prefix` concatenated with the relative path of the document in `data_path`. For example, if my `data_path` is `mydata` containing the following structure:
```
└───mydata
    │   overview.html
    │
    └───examples
            example1.html
            example2.html
```
And `url_prefix` is `"https://my-wiki.com/"`, the resulting URLs will be:
|File| URL|
|---|---|
|overview.html | `"https://my-wiki.com/overview.html"`|
|example1.html | `"https://my-wiki.com/examples/example1.html"`|
|example2.html | `"https://my-wiki.com/examples/example2.html"`|

These URLs can then be used in the citation display in the web app. See the [README](../README.md#changing-citation-display) for more detail.

If you have documents from multiple source websites, you can specify multiple paths and prefixes following the example in `config_multiple_url.json`. 
```
[
    {
        "data_paths": [
            {
                "path": "data/source1",
                "url_prefix": "https://<URL for source 1>.com/"
            },
            {
                "path": "data/source2",
                "url_prefix": "https://<URL for source 2>.com/"
            }
        ],
        "subscription_id": "<subscription id>",
        "resource_group": "<resource group name>",
        "search_service_name": "<search service name to use or create>",
        "index_name": "<index name to use or create>",
        "chunk_size": 1024,
        "token_overlap": 128,
        "semantic_config_name": "default",
        "language": "<Language to support for example use 'en' for English. Checked supported languages here under lucene - https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/search/index-add-language-analyzers"
    }
]
```

The ingestion script will loop through each path in `data_paths` and construct the document URLs following the same pattern as described above, using the specific URL prefix for each data path.

You can modify the URL construction logic in `process_file()` in [data_utils.py](./data_utils.py):
```
url_path = None
rel_file_path = os.path.relpath(file_path, directory_path)
if url_prefix:
    url_path = url_prefix + rel_file_path
    url_path = convert_escaped_to_posix(url_path)
```

## Optional: Add vector embeddings
Azure Cognitive Search supports vector search in public preview. See [the docs](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/search/vector-search-overview) for more information.

To add vectors to your index, you will first need an [Azure OpenAI resource](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/ai-services/openai/overview) with an [Ada embedding model deployment](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/ai-services/openai/concepts/models#embeddings-models). The `text-embedding-ada-002` model is supported.

- Get the endpoint for embedding model deployment. The endpoint will generally be of the format `https://<azure openai resource name>.openai.azure.com/openai/deployments/<ada deployment name>/embeddings?api-version=2023-06-01-preview`.
- Run the data preparation script, passing in your config file and the embedding endpoint and key as extra arguments:

      `python data_preparation.py --config config.json --embedding-model-endpoint "<embedding endpoint>"`

## Optional: Crack PDFs to Text
If your data is in PDF format, you'll first need to convert from PDF to .txt format. You can use your own script for this, or use the provided conversion code here. 

### Setup for PDF Cracking
- Create a [Form Recognizer](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/applied-ai-services/form-recognizer/create-a-form-recognizer-resource?view=form-recog-3.0.0) resource in your subscription 
- Make sure you have the Form Recognizer SDK: `pip install azure-ai-formrecognizer`
- Run the following command to get an access key for your Form Recognizer resource:
  `az cognitiveservices account keys list --name "<form-rec-resource-name>" --resource-group "<resource-group-name>"`

  Copy one of the keys returned by this command.

### Create Indexes and Ingest Data from PDF with Form Recognizer
Pass in your Form Recognizer resource name and key when running the data preparation script:

`python data_preparation.py --config config.json --njobs=4 --form-rec-resource <form-rec-resource-name> --form-rec-key <form-rec-key>`

This will use the Form Recognizer Read model by default. 

If your documents have a lot of tables and relevant layout information, you can use the Form Recognizer Layout model, which is more costly and slower to run but will preserve table information with better quality. The Layout model will also help preserve some of the formatting information in your document such as titles and sub-headings, which will make the citations more readable. To use the Layout model instead of the default Read model, pass in the argument `--form-rec-use-layout`.

`python data_preparation.py --config config.json --njobs=4 --form-rec-resource <form-rec-resource-name> --form-rec-key <form-rec-key> --form-rec-use-layout`

# Use AML to Prepare Data
## Setup 
- Install the [Azure ML CLI v2](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/machine-learning/concept-v2?view=azureml-api-2)

## Prerequisites
- Azure Machine Learning (AML) Workspace with associated Keyvault
- Azure Cognitive Search (ACS) resource
- (Optional if processing PDF) [Azure AI Document Intelligence](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/ai-services/document-intelligence/overview?view=doc-intel-3.1.0) resource
- (Optional if adding embeddings for vector search) Azure OpenAI resource with Ada (text-embedding-ada-002) deployment
- (Optional) Azure Blob Storage account

## Configure
- Create secrets in the AML keyvault for the Azure Cognitive Search resource admin key, Document Intelligence access key, and Azure OpenAI API key (if using)
- Create a config file like `aml_config.json`. The format can be a single JSON object or a list of them, with each object specifying a configuration of Keyvault secrets, chunking settings, and index configuration.
```
{
        "chunk_size": 1024,
        "token_overlap": 128,
        "keyvault_url": "https://<keyvault name>.vault.azure.net/",
        "document_intelligence_secret_name": "myDocIntelligenceKey",
        "document_intelligence_endpoint": "https://<document intelligence resource name>.cognitiveservices.azure.com/",
        "embedding_key_secret_name": "myAzureOpenAIKey",
        "embedding_endpoint": "https:/<azure openai resource name>.openai.azure.com/openai/deployments/<Ada deployment name>/embeddings?api-version=2023-06-01-preview",
        "index_name": "<new index name>",
        "search_service_name": "<search service name>",
        "search_key_secret_name": "mySearchServiceKey"
}
```

## Optional: Create an AML Datastore
If your data is in Azure Blob Storage, you can first create an AML Datastore that will be used to connect to your data during ingestion. Update `datastore.yml` with your storage account information including the account key. Then run this command, using the resource group and workspace name of your AML workspace:

```
az ml datastore create --resource-group <workspace resource group> --workspace-name <workspace name> --file datastore.yml
```

## Submit the data processing pipeline job
In `pipeline.yml`, update the inputs to point to your config file name and the datastore you created. If you're using data stored locally, comment out the datastore path and uncomment the local path, updating to point to your local data location. Then submit the pipeline job to your AML workspace:

```
az ml job create --resource-group <workspace resource group> --workspace-name <workspace name> --file pipeline.yml
```

Commit message:

add Cohere embedding model support to allow users to create embedding indexes using cohere models (#829)
Co-authored-by: Sophie Chen <sophiechen@microsoft.com>

scripts/readme.md, after:

# Data Preparation

# Prepare Data Locally
Follow the instructions in this section to prepare your data locally. This is easiest for small data sets. For much larger sets, see the [instructions to use AML below](#use-aml-to-prepare-data).
## Setup
- Install the necessary packages listed in requirements.txt, e.g. `pip install --user -r requirements.txt`

## Configure
- Create a .env file similar to the .env.example file. Fill in the values for the environment variables.
- Create a config file like `config.json`. The format should be a list of JSON objects, with each object specifying a configuration of local data path and target search service and index.

```
[
    {
        "data_path": "<local path or blob URL>",
        "location": "<azure region, e.g. 'westus2'>", 
        "subscription_id": "<subscription id>",
        "resource_group": "<resource group name>",
        "search_service_name": "<search service name to use or create>",
        "index_name": "<index name to use or create>",
        "chunk_size": 1024, // set to null to disable chunking before ingestion
        "token_overlap": 128 // number of tokens to overlap between chunks
        "semantic_config_name": "default",
        "language": "en" // setting to set language of your documents. Change if your documents are not in English. Look in data_preparation.py for SUPPORTED_LANGUAGE_CODES,
        "vector_config_name": "default" // used if adding vectors to index
    }
]
```

Note: `data_path` can be a path to files located locally on your machine, or an Azure Blob URL, e.g. of the format `"https://<storage account name>.blob.core.windows.net/<container name>/<path>/"`. If a blob URL is used, the data will first be downloaded from Blob Storage to a temporary directory on your machine before data preparation proceeds.

## Create Indexes and Ingest Data
Disclaimer: Make sure there are no duplicate pages in your data. That could impact the quality of the responses you get in a negative way.

- Run the data preparation script, passing in your config file. You can set njobs for parallel parsing of your files.

     `python data_preparation.py --config config.json --njobs=4`

## Optional: Use URL prefix
Each document can be associated with a URL that is stored with each document chunk in the Azure Cognitive Search index in the `url` field. If your documents were downloaded from the web, you can specify a URL prefix to use to construct the document URLs when ingesting your data. Your config file should have an additional `url_prefix` parameter like so:

```
[
    {
        "data_path": "<local path or blob URL>",
        "url_prefix": "https://<source website URL>.com/"
        "location": "<azure region, e.g. 'westus2'>", 
        "subscription_id": "<subscription id>",
        "resource_group": "<resource group name>",
        "search_service_name": "<search service name to use or create>",
        "index_name": "<index name to use or create>",
        "chunk_size": 1024, // set to null to disable chunking before ingestion
        "token_overlap": 128 // number of tokens to overlap between chunks
        "semantic_config_name": "default",
        "language": "en" // setting to set language of your documents. Change if your documents are not in English. Look in data_preparation.py for SUPPORTED_LANGUAGE_CODES,
        "vector_config_name": "default" // used if adding vectors to index
    }
]
```

For each document, the URL stored with chunks from that document will be `url_prefix` concatenated with the relative path of the document in `data_path`. For example, if my `data_path` is `mydata` containing the following structure:
```
└───mydata
    │   overview.html
    │
    └───examples
            example1.html
            example2.html
```
And `url_prefix` is `"https://my-wiki.com/"`, the resulting URLs will be:
|File| URL|
|---|---|
|overview.html | `"https://my-wiki.com/overview.html"`|
|example1.html | `"https://my-wiki.com/examples/example1.html"`|
|example2.html | `"https://my-wiki.com/examples/example2.html"`|

These URLs can then be used in the citation display in the web app. See the [README](../README.md#changing-citation-display) for more detail.

If you have documents from multiple source websites, you can specify multiple paths and prefixes following the example in `config_multiple_url.json`. 
```
[
    {
        "data_paths": [
            {
                "path": "data/source1",
                "url_prefix": "https://<URL for source 1>.com/"
            },
            {
                "path": "data/source2",
                "url_prefix": "https://<URL for source 2>.com/"
            }
        ],
        "subscription_id": "<subscription id>",
        "resource_group": "<resource group name>",
        "search_service_name": "<search service name to use or create>",
        "index_name": "<index name to use or create>",
        "chunk_size": 1024,
        "token_overlap": 128,
        "semantic_config_name": "default",
        "language": "<Language to support for example use 'en' for English. Checked supported languages here under lucene - https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/search/index-add-language-analyzers"
    }
]
```

The ingestion script will loop through each path in `data_paths` and construct the document URLs following the same pattern as described above, using the specific URL prefix for each data path.

You can modify the URL construction logic in `process_file()` in [data_utils.py](./data_utils.py):
```
url_path = None
rel_file_path = os.path.relpath(file_path, directory_path)
if url_prefix:
    url_path = url_prefix + rel_file_path
    url_path = convert_escaped_to_posix(url_path)
```

## Optional: Add vector embeddings
Azure Cognitive Search supports vector search in public preview. See [the docs](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/search/vector-search-overview) for more information.

To add vectors to your index, you will first need an [Azure OpenAI resource](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/ai-services/openai/overview) with an [Ada embedding model deployment](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/ai-services/openai/concepts/models#embeddings-models). The `text-embedding-ada-002` model is supported.

- Get the endpoint for embedding model deployment. The endpoint will generally be of the format `https://<azure openai resource name>.openai.azure.com/openai/deployments/<ada deployment name>/embeddings?api-version=2023-06-01-preview`.
- Run the data preparation script, passing in your config file and the embedding endpoint and key as extra arguments:

      `python data_preparation.py --config config.json --embedding-model-endpoint "<embedding endpoint>"`

## Optional: Crack PDFs to Text
If your data is in PDF format, you'll first need to convert from PDF to .txt format. You can use your own script for this, or use the provided conversion code here. 

### Setup for PDF Cracking
- Create a [Form Recognizer](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/applied-ai-services/form-recognizer/create-a-form-recognizer-resource?view=form-recog-3.0.0) resource in your subscription 
- Make sure you have the Form Recognizer SDK: `pip install azure-ai-formrecognizer`
- Run the following command to get an access key for your Form Recognizer resource:
  `az cognitiveservices account keys list --name "<form-rec-resource-name>" --resource-group "<resource-group-name>"`

  Copy one of the keys returned by this command.

### Create Indexes and Ingest Data from PDF with Form Recognizer
Pass in your Form Recognizer resource name and key when running the data preparation script:

`python data_preparation.py --config config.json --njobs=4 --form-rec-resource <form-rec-resource-name> --form-rec-key <form-rec-key>`

This will use the Form Recognizer Read model by default. 

If your documents have a lot of tables and relevant layout information, you can use the Form Recognizer Layout model, which is more costly and slower to run but will preserve table information with better quality. The Layout model will also help preserve some of the formatting information in your document such as titles and sub-headings, which will make the citations more readable. To use the Layout model instead of the default Read model, pass in the argument `--form-rec-use-layout`.

`python data_preparation.py --config config.json --njobs=4 --form-rec-resource <form-rec-resource-name> --form-rec-key <form-rec-key> --form-rec-use-layout`

# Use AML to Prepare Data
## Setup 
- Install the [Azure ML CLI v2](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/machine-learning/concept-v2?view=azureml-api-2)

## Prerequisites
- Azure Machine Learning (AML) Workspace with associated Keyvault
- Azure Cognitive Search (ACS) resource
- (Optional if processing PDF) [Azure AI Document Intelligence](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/ai-services/document-intelligence/overview?view=doc-intel-3.1.0) resource
- (Optional if adding embeddings for vector search) Azure OpenAI resource with Ada (text-embedding-ada-002) deployment
- (Optional) Azure Blob Storage account

## Configure
- Create secrets in the AML keyvault for the Azure Cognitive Search resource admin key, Document Intelligence access key, and Azure OpenAI API key (if using)
- Create a config file like `aml_config.json`. The format can be a single JSON object or a list of them, with each object specifying a configuration of Keyvault secrets, chunking settings, and index configuration.
```
{
        "chunk_size": 1024,
        "token_overlap": 128,
        "keyvault_url": "https://<keyvault name>.vault.azure.net/",
        "document_intelligence_secret_name": "myDocIntelligenceKey",
        "document_intelligence_endpoint": "https://<document intelligence resource name>.cognitiveservices.azure.com/",
        "embedding_key_secret_name": "myAzureOpenAIKey",
        "embedding_endpoint": "https:/<azure openai resource name>.openai.azure.com/openai/deployments/<Ada deployment name>/embeddings?api-version=2023-06-01-preview",
        "index_name": "<new index name>",
        "search_service_name": "<search service name>",
        "search_key_secret_name": "mySearchServiceKey"
}
```

## Optional: Create an AML Datastore
If your data is in Azure Blob Storage, you can first create an AML Datastore that will be used to connect to your data during ingestion. Update `datastore.yml` with your storage account information including the account key. Then run this command, using the resource group and workspace name of your AML workspace:

```
az ml datastore create --resource-group <workspace resource group> --workspace-name <workspace name> --file datastore.yml
```

## Submit the data processing pipeline job
In `pipeline.yml`, update the inputs to point to your config file name and the datastore you created. If you're using data stored locally, comment out the datastore path and uncomment the local path, updating to point to your local data location. Then submit the pipeline job to your AML workspace:

```
az ml job create --resource-group <workspace resource group> --workspace-name <workspace name> --file pipeline.yml
```
